This is my Cultural Discussion for exercise 4.9.

I choose to research and write about the topic of diversity in the tech industry, and since this is a huge and complex issue, I will narrow my focus even more and specifically look at gender diversity in the tech industry.

Before starting my research on this topic, coming from an engineering background, I already knew that there is a huge lack of representation of women in all STEM related fields.

There are many statistics that can be found by doing an internet search on gender diversity problems in the tech industry.  One page that I found that I thought did a good job of visually representing the proportion of women in tech is here:
http://www.informationisbeautiful.net/visualizations/diversity-in-tech/

It is obvious from this graph that when roughly 51% of the population are women, but none of the top tech companies with the exception of Pandora at 49% approach having 51% female employess.  In fact, most have less than 1/3.

I think that the lack of women in the tech industry is a societal problem and begins at childhood.  Boys are encouraged to do well in math and science, where girls are not.  Boys are encouraged to question things, play with legos, build, experiment.  Girls are told to be obedient, to play with toys that do not necessarily reinforce the skills required to be a good technical person.  This carries into their young adult life, and when the time comes to make a decision on what to study in college, many women simply are not choosing a STEM path.  This site, which references data gathered by the National Center for Education Statistics shows the percentage of degrees conferred upon women by year between 1970 and 2012.  Engineering degrees have slowly been rising and were at 18% in 2012.  Computer science however peaked in the early 80's at around 37% and then fell through the 80s, 90s and 2000s.  In 2012 the percentage of CS degrees conferred upon women was only 18-19%.

I think that this a problem for our culture and our society that if allowed to continue will create and reinforce economic and social inequality for women.  There is much more to research, and volumes have been written on this topic, but I have reached the end of the time period I have timeboxed for this lesson.  I will definitely continue researching this topic on my own time as gender inequality, fighting against it, and discovering the reasons for it, are something that is interesting to me.

http://www.randalolson.com/2014/06/14/percentage-of-bachelors-degrees-conferred-to-women-by-major-1970-2012/